[singing in Japanese]
[narrator] The Nautilus
was caught in a trap
devised by Gargoyle
during his airborne escape.
Out of desperation,
Nemo allowed Hanson
and Sanson to attempt a rescue.
Jean, who had sneaked
aboard the Gratan,
became an accidental
third member of the crew
that saved
the majestic submarine
from the horrible sea mines.
The adventure continues.
[Electra]
I object to this proposal.
This crew has a daunting task
ahead of us.
We must concentrate our total
efforts towards this objective.
To blithely take on
new crew members at this time
would greatly hinder
our mission and put the crew
in unwarranted danger.
For the well-being
of the Nautilus,
I stand firmly opposed
to the motion before us.
Yes, but we're
short of personnel.
In addition,
the first officer's objections
do not take into account
that they have all served
this ship well so far.
I strongly agree.
If they think of Gargoyle
as their enemy,
then their goals
are the same as ours.
There's one
thing that bothers me.
Now, what if they were to leave
the ship at some point?
They could take the secrets
they've learned
from the Nautilus and
misuse them.
You don't need to
worry about that.
Hmm?
Those people could never
completely understand
the breadth of our
scientific knowledge.
He is right.
No crew member fully comprehends
the super-science
that governs the Nautilus.
They'll learn to use it,
but they would never be able
to duplicate it on their own.
[Electra] This issue
is without merit.
[Sanson] I can't stand
this much longer!
How much longer
are those hotheads
going to keep us cooped up
in this tiny room?
I have a brand-new suit
and no one to show it off to.
They all look the same.
Ah, look who's talking!
Just look at them.
Each one has its
own subtle character.
If you say so.
So, do you think
they'll let us stay aboard?
I hope they kick us off.
The sooner I get out of here,
the happier I'll be.
Still, there's so much
technological knowledge
to learn from them.
I would love to
apply what they know
about deep-sea diving mechanics
to the Gratan.
You're nuts. They're not going
to give you that information.
They might.
Even so, we can't make
the decision to leave.
It's all up to the mademoiselle.
-True.
-Hmm?
[Grandis] Ah.
Perfect.
"Oh, goodness me, Miss Granva.
You look
simply ravishing today."
"Ooh, oh, how
perfectly sweet of you, Captain.
You're flattering me."
"My dear lady, it isn't flattery
when you're telling the truth."
And then he--
Oh, you're so silly!
[King purrs]
[Nemo] I hereby confirm
that Grandis, Hanson, and Sanson
are accepted as apprentice
crew members of the Nautilus.
-It still bothers you?
-[gasps]
Um, no, it's just--
are you certain we can
put our trust in those three?
Particularly Miss Granva.
Why do you single Grandis out?
I--No reason, sir.
[all] What?
Apprentice crew members?
Yes. From this day forward,
the three of you
will be working exclusively
under my command.
Don't you want to reconsider?
Huh?
Thank you.
Oh. Who's responsible
for this dire turn of events?
Oh, thanks, God!
I didn't know if you had
listened to my fervent prayers.
I'm sorry I doubted you!
-Where's the captain?
-Uh...
Hmm.
-[Jean] Miss Electra?
-Huh?
I want to learn everything
about this ship.
The science you use here
is unbelievable.
You are doing things that no one
has ever even sought
to attempt before.
I want to learn
everything that you know
-and use it to benefit mankind!
-Right!
I understand, Jean.
But I cannot allow you
to wander freely
around the vessel.
Eh?
However, I will let you
read all the books in my library
you wish.
-Thank you, Miss Electra!
-[chuckles]
-[Nadia] Miss Electra.
-Oh?
And what am
I allowed to do onboard?
Well, you'll be entertained
as the honored guest of
Captain Nemo.
Although you must
still obey the rules
that Jean is expected to follow.
-No. I want a job to do.
-But...
I am accustomed to working
for my food and shelter,
and I don't plan
to stop that now.
That's a good girl!
The Bible says, "If a man won't
work, neither shall he eat."
I see. If that is your wish,
then you can assist
Miss Grandis.
-Good.
-Marie wants a job, too.
-Huh?
-What kind of job can Marie do?
Well, I can do anything!
Well, I'm sure I can think
of something for you to do.
[laughs]
I'll find something for you too.
[purrs]
[sonar]
Activate internal diagram media.
Now pay attention.
This is the interior
of the Nautilus.
This is where we are right now.
-Uh-huh.
-Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
And here, we have the hangar,
the crew's quarters,
and the engine room.
Why doesn't the diagram show
where the propellers are?
-[gasps] That's right!
-We don't use propellers here.
You see, the Nautilus is moved
by water jet propulsion.
-Jet propulsion?
What's that, exactly?
The Nautilus takes water in
through intake valves,
ionizes it, and then,
using a superconductor coil
for magnetic induction,
it converts it to plasma,
ejects it through the stern,
which in turn propels the ship.
You apply magnetic induction?
What energy source can provide
such a large amount of power?
A boiler or a battery
would be too weak.
The power source is here,
the very heart of the ship.
Yes, but what exactly
is the power source, sir?
Hey, don't start
calling me "sir."
I'm not that old, you know?
Could you go ahead
and answer his question?
Well, the energy comes
from the particle anni--
Oh, that's classified data.
What? I can't hear you.
I apologize,
but I'm forbidden to talk
about that part of the ship.
Anyway, no ship can
compete with ours,
not even the Garfish.
-Huh?
-Garfish?
Yes. You've seen it, Jean.
It's Gargoyle's submarine.
[Jean] Garfish...
And now I would like to take you
on a tour of the bridge.
[Hanson] Ooh.
You won't be allowed to go
up there during maneuvers.
[groans]
What? Marie?
Is something wrong?
Yes. I want to work.
I don't want to study.
But don't you see?
Schoolwork is the kind of work
a child is supposed to do.
But I am not a child!
I wanna do real work!
Yes, but studying and working
are the same thing.
-Then I don't wanna work.
-What shall we do?
-[King purrs]
-Hmph.
My, aren't you a clever lion?
Shall we study mathematics
without Marie, King?
[purrs]
Very well.
Please solve the first problem
on the board.
-One...
-[purring]
-Huh?
-Yes.
That's amazing.
A lion who knows his addition.
-Good boy.
-[purring]
Yeah? I can add too!
Oh? Then let's try something
a little different.
-What's three minus two?
-[purrs]
Hey! It's my turn to answer!
One! Hmph.
What are you wearing?
That getup makes you
look like a field worker.
Sorry. It was too big on me,
so I cut it.
Well, if you don't mind
being seen that way,
let's make our way
to the kitchen, shall we?
What on Earth is this?
[cook] Well,
that's the cold storage.
How can that be?
Everything looks frozen to me.
It can't be frozen without ice.
[laughs]
We don't use
ice for cooling, lady.
We use electricity.
You do?
Is this electricity
something cold?
Well, let me
explain it this way.
I'm just a cook,
not a science officer.
So, what is this?
That's an electric stove.
-Electric stove?
-Mm-hmm.
-And juicer?
-Uh-hmm, mm-hmm.
-And mixer?
-Mm-hmm.
-And oven?
-Uh-huh.
Oh.
Here, and here, and here!
My, all run by electricity?
An electric dishwasher?
Yes! But electricity
can't do two major things.
-Huh?
It can't use
a good cooking knife...
and it can't love to cook.
[Nadia] Ouch!
-You cut yourself again?
-Mm.
Oh, children nowadays,
can't even chop seaweed right.
-Hmm.
-You're quite the problem child.
If you keep that up, you're
going to run out of fingers.
-[whimpers]
-No more knives for you.
Can you open that box for me?
Yes.
Agh!
Oh, that's right.
You did say the sight of meat
or fish makes you ill.
Hmm?
Ooh.
Well, all right, then.
I guess I'll just have to finish
cooking this luxurious meal
without a kitchen assistant.
-[laughs]
-Uh-huh.
They certainly have
plenty of fish here.
The menus must get
terribly monotonous.
How can you even
touch those things?
Well, it won't bite you.
It's nothing to be
afraid of, my dear.
[laughs]
Yes, but you're holding
a dead body.
Dead body?
I see nothing
here but good food.
And besides, it's adorable.
And my charming
captain will love it!
[cook] Hmm?
Mmm.
Oh, smells good.
Perfect.
[laughs]
Dinner is served, Captain Nemo.
-Ah.
Hmm, what is it?
-A fish?
-[laughs]
I call it Grandis Fish
a l'amour.
I'm sure
you will love it, Captain.
Yes. Enjoy.
How come the rest
of the crew only gets
a bowl of soup
and a glass of water?
Quiet, you!
You're still young! Just eat it!
Hmm.
Now, eat it while it's hot, sir.
Uh... [groans]
Oh, do you not like it?
Huh? No.
[laughs]
Hmm.
Good!
-Hooray!
-Huh?
It looks a bit strange,
but it really is quite tasty.
May I?
-[chatter]
-[Nemo] Help yourselves.
[crewman]
Can I have some of that?
[Nemo] Have some more, please.
-All of you.
-[crewman] My goodness.
[gasps]
-[crewman] Thank you, sir.
-[sighs]
That is remarkable
news about the lion,
but I must say I am amazed
by Grandis' culinary skills.
Well, I guess you can't judge
a book by its cover.
-However...
-However?
Sir, it's about Nadia.
All right. Go on.
Well, she's been assigned
a few simple tasks,
but she seems to
be inept at everything,
though I'm sure
she'll pick it up, given time.
Ah, Nadia never had anyone
to teach her the ways of life.
Yes, sir. I understand.
Neither did I.
♪ The Secret Blue Water
[acoustic music playing]
So, in conclusion,
I have been asked to feed
the entire Nautilus crew,
and this is the menu
I have devised for that.
-[purrs]
-I'm still figuring it out.
So please keep all of your
whining complaints to yourself.
Now, let us eat.
Oh, isn't it grand to eat
the same food as Captain Nemo?
-Well...
-But you're eating fish,
and we get potatoes.
Hmm, did you say something?
Speak up so
I can hear you better.
Not us. [laughs]
Uh, no. We're just, uh,
eating potatoes, right?
[both laugh]
That's not mashed potatoes.
It's puréed whitefish meat.
-[laughs]
-[chuckles]
That's very rude.
Oh, sorry.
-[all] Time to eat!
-[sniffs, purrs]
Hmm, you look scrumptious.
Hmm. Well, I think
it needs a touch of pepper.
Yes. I don't think pepper
is what it's lacking.
-Right.
-Listen up, you two!
If you have
something to say, say it!
You've been muttering
under your breaths all week.
It makes me sick.
You loaf around all day
and expect to eat like kings.
-[all] Ah!
-Ah!
[roars]
-Huh?
[gasps]
-[utensils clanging]
-Hey!
[all] Oh...
[screams] I knew it!
Savage!
[explosion]
Ah, got you!
-Now, then, huh!
-[roars]
[screams]
-Miss Granva?
I'll kill that cat!
Uh, he's a lion, miss.
[purring]
I'll teach you to scratch my
beautiful skin, you feline fink!
-Grandis!
-You better not touch him.
-No, oh.
-King, come here!
King!
[King purring]
Hmm, found you!
How could I miss?
-Wait, Miss Granva.
-Uh, Miss Granva?
-Just stop it!
-Huh?
Some people need to learn proper
manners for the dining table.
Who are these people?
[purring]
[all] King! King! King! King!
King! King! King! King!
[purring]
[thuds]
-Come back here!
-[indistinct chatter]
[Nadia] Leave him alone.
Do you hear me?
[Grandis] Come on! Come on!
Huh? [chuckles]
The air is charged.
How strange.
Coming through!
Excuse me, Miss Granva,
you are not permitted
on the bridge now.
Well, this is an emergency,
so I say we are allowed.
Well, this is
certainly news to me.
The procedures on our ship are
not for you to determine, ma'am.
Oh, is that so?
All you ever think
about is the rules.
That's why you look
older than your age.
-What was that?
-[crew gasps]
Now, what's down there?
[all] King! King! King!
King! King! King! King!
Wow.
Whoa! Agh! So
this is where you went.
Now then, what could this be?
It's definitely not a generator.
-It must be an engine.
-It is.
[gasps] Captain Nemo!
This is the heart
of the Nautilus...
the particle
annihilation engine.
Particle annihilation?
That's right.
How does
this type of engine work?
[Nemo] Inside that sphere,
hydrogen atoms and
their counterparts
collide and destroy each other,
releasing 94% of their mass
as pure energy.
It is the only self-fueling
engine in the world.
That sounds complicated.
Oh, that, it is, Jean.
See? It's beyond
this century's science.
It's even
beyond the 20th century.
If used properly, it could
propel us up to the stars.
Oh, the stars?
Wow! This is
a treasure for mankind.
But if used improperly...
it could become a weapon that
would destroy the entire world.
That is why mankind must
never find out that it exists.
This ship is merely a carefully
contained killing machine.
Jean, science is
a truly wonderful thing.
It makes
the impossible possible.
But it must also
bear responsibility
for all of the crimes
that bloomed
from Eden's Tree of Knowledge.
You should never forget that.
You better get out of my way.
Absolutely not.
Entrance into the engine room
is strictly prohibited.
Oh, would
you stop being so uptight?
That is enough.
I just want to run in, look
for the monster, and run out.
[Electra] I don't care
why you want to go in there,
because you are
not going to go in there.
Well, we'll see about that.
-Huh, King!
-Oh!
You had me so worried,
you bad little boy.
You must never run away again.
My dear Nadia,
hand over the Blue Water--
I mean, give King to me.
No! This all started because you
tried to kill him back there.
Hand over that lion!
[Nemo] What's going on here?
Captain Nemo.
[Nemo] Explain this disturbance.
Well, you see, our guests...
I was simply
asking if I could play
with Nadia's delightful
little kitten.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
[panting]
In this day of modern science,
why do we end up working
as scrub-brush operators?
As long as we're on this ship, I
wouldn't expect anything better.
You know?
What are
you two grumbling about?
I was the one who was shouted at
by the love of her life.
But then, isn't Captain Nemo
adorable when he's angry?
[dramatic music playing]
[all sigh]
Oh, yes!
The sky is so lovely.
I could kiss it. Mwah!
It's been so long
since we saw the sun.
Watch out. I'm Miss Granva.
Hmm, I never knew the wind
and sun could feel so wonderful.
[gasps] Good day, Captain.
[laughs]
At ease, Officer Jean.
I'm glad to see
you took leave of the books.
It is such a beautiful day.
Uh...
Enjoy it all you wish.
We'll be on
the surface for 24 hours.
The deck will be free.
I recommend it most highly.
-Aye!
-[Marie] Now you be Miss Granva.
-[King purring]
-[Grandis] Yoo-hoo!
-[Marie laughs]
-[Grandis] Captain Nemo?
[gasps]
Jean, is something wrong?
Mm, the more I read,
the more I don't understand.
I see. Maybe I can
help you understand.
Tell me, is this ship really
a killing machine?
Did Captain Nemo tell you that?
Mm-hmm. In the engine room.
I only went in there
to look for King.
I'm sorry.
[gasps] Forgive me.
-I was wrong.
-[laughs]
Well, I'll let you off
because you're so honest.
"Science is responsible
for the crimes
created by
the Tree of Knowledge."
-He said that?
-Yes.
But what does it mean?
Listen.
Man has been given
a great deal of knowledge.
But since he's capable
of both good and evil,
that knowledge can be
used either way.
Often, man won't even know
the difference.
Therefore, even
with the best of intentions,
that knowledge can
create great misery.
So he's right, Jean.
[Electra] The incredible
power of this ship
would prove too tempting
a weapon if mankind knew of it
and, in his hands,
would lead to destruction.
Jean, as you grow older
and see the world,
you will understand.
-[Nadia] Jean? Jean?
-Huh?
What's wrong?
You're so quiet.
-I'm sorry.
-Did Captain Nemo upset you?
Mm-hmm.
[Nadia] Jean, is this
a good ship or a bad ship?
[Jean] I believe that
it is a good ship.
It is, because the captain
is a good man.
I wonder.
[instrumental music playing]
The sea roars at night...
like a hungry
beast on the prowl.
[Jean] Mm-hmm.
Man is such a small creature
when compared to the depths of
the ocean,
and yet the ocean is nothing
when compared to
the limitless universe.
[singing in Japanese]